# BlockpassHack

## Problems

When crisis hits on a national level, many people are displaced. These displaced populations are faced with tremendous risk of losing content that define their persona or aspects of their identities. Such contexts lost include birth certificates, governmental ID, driving licenses, health records, university certification, work history, employer references, bank account records, credit history documents, etc. 

When this happens the displaced people must as refugees reconstitute their identity. Unfortunately with their previous context being destroyed, and no means to reconstitute it they are often required start over. However when starting over they may not have their old credential but they do still retain the knowledge and can thus prove competency given a chance. However bootstrapping their identity is currently not easy due to lack of already built out infrastructure, however this is changing. 

## Solutions
Thanks to the workings of the Digital Identity Foundation, RBTWOT and W3C, we can now build out the required interoperable infrastructure to solve many of the problems faced by displaced persons. Older schema like OpenBadges have been ported into the distributed ledger space, and standards like DID, DDO’s and Verifiable Credentials allow individuals to make provable assertions around their identity. 

To bootstrap an identity that’s been lost due to the disappearance of the cert issuing authorities (government, university et. al), we must start from a grassroots context. This, by necessity, MUST be a community reputation system allowing individuals to issue attestations within their own a web-of-trust. To be useful, this grassroots WOT must find equivalence AND interoperability within the first world so that members of a such a grassroots community can leverage an osmosis effect to pull themselves out of their displaced “invisible” context. 

There are many problems with creating reputation systems like this, however this form of reputation is intended to be regarded only as a signal, not fact - with due diligence being required to verify grassroots assertions. 
To this end an agency may be required to find equivalence between the grass roots assertions and credentials accepted in the first world by a trusted certificate authority. Forward thinking trusted institutions such as the Open University already have a process for testing skills and issuing credentials in this way so with credential/attestation tools in the hands of the displaced, institutions and NGO’s on the ground will be able to attest to people's grassroots assertions/credentials as a higher order trust anchor who may in turn connect with first world institutions/trust hubs like the UK Home Office. 

With these systems in place discoverability is likely useful, but obviously refugee status is a stigma that many people may not wish to carry. For this reason we do not wish to expose the individual's actual identity and thus they should be protected via petNames.

The identity/claims flow is as follows; a claim is advertised by an individual by issuing it and linking it to a discoverable petName, validity of a claim is attested to by peers in the community who issue credentials from their associated petName. Upon collecting enough attestions from peers, refugees could make a good case for testing/examination from NGO’s or higher level trust anchors with the capability to expedite their cases through official channels or the means to coordinate and utilise their skills (e.g. building houses, birthing, teaching etc.) in the closed environment of the camp. As the root of all grassroot attestations are linked to petName’s (a unique identifier - with attachable arbitrary namespaces), nothing about the individual is actually exposed. As individuals move into the first world environment and gain reputable attestations to previous claims from the grassroots environment, the reputation of the individual's previous attestors is to a degree validated - which can be used by NGOs to identify strong candidates for replacement or assistance/intergration on the ground with their orginisation. The attestations from these entities will likely hold more weight that grassroots attestations and these referrals can be shared up the chain.

Within the grassroots community, the flow of value is also relatively illiquid due to a lack of fungible assets. The unit of exchange is usually agreements and barter, and thus there is a lot of effort expended on price discovery. This can also be solved with unique tokens representative of time which are are continuously minted to the owner under a namespace (JoshCoin, ChrissyCoin etc) - while each token is unique to the minter, they can be seen as equivalent and thus fungible within the community. When Josh and Chrissy exchange tokens, they are essentially swapping time in service to each other for redemption at a later date, which would lower the friction around grassroots barter. 


